The Parchments of Truth by Pastor Alex Iheme 10 February 2026Bible: Acts 16Key Verse: 25And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed, and sang praises unto God: and the prisoners heard them.
Theme: When You Suffer for Doing What Is Right
Message Paul and Silas were thrown into prison because Paul healed a woman who was possessed by an evil spirit of divination. They were mobbed, beaten, flogged, and then thrown into prison for saving a life (Acts 16:16-22).
When you become a Christian, you will become an enemy to the world (James 4:4). Jesus said to His brothers, “The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify that its works are evil.” (John 7:7)
Have you suffered for the sake of your faith in God or because you did something good for others, and they used your kindness and goodness against you? It is in the package of salvation—love suffers, sometimes very long (1 Corinthians 13:4).
But this is what you have to know: your suffering brings glory to God, and it also causes you to be glorified with Him. In your weaknesses, the power of God is manifested.
When Paul and Silas were thrown into prison, they were joyful for suffering for Christ. At midnight, they worshipped God, prayed, and sang—not in secret, but to the hearing of their jailers and the prisoners. They had learned to leverage every circumstance of life for the glory of God.
What happened next? The Holy Ghost came down to the prison: “And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken: and immediately all the doors were opened, and every one's bands were loosed.” (Acts 16:26) When this happened, Paul and Silas did not get up and run away because the prison gates were flung open. No, they stayed put.And through this encounter, the jailer believed and was saved with his entire family that same night.
The book of James 1:2-4 says, “My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into divers temptations; 3Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. 4But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing.” Praised be to God!
Prayers Dear Father, thank You for setting me apart from the world for Your glory. And as long as I am in this world, I affirm that I am the Light of the world!
