The Parchments of Truth by Pastor Alex Iheme 13 February 2026Bible: 1 John 3Key Verse: 8He that committeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil.
Theme: The Root of Sin and Its Destruction
Message Sin is the transgression of the law, the command, and instructions of God (1 John 3:4). Sin is of the devil, and it preceded the sin of humanity, which is the sin of Adam and Eve. 1 John 3:8 says, “…for the devil sinneth from the beginning.” But sin came into the world of humanity through Adam’s disobedience of God’s command (Romans 5:12). The power of sin is in the law given against it, but where there is no law, sin is powerless and is not charged.
Jesus is the only human who was not born in sin and has no nature of sin in Him. When He was in this world, He was tempted in every way as a man, but He did not sin. Because the wages of sin is death, Jesus had to die for man to pay that price. Upon resurrection, He destroyed the power of sin, having fulfilled all the requirements of the law, and brought salvation to humanity. Romans 8:1 says, “So now there is no condemnation for those who belong to Christ Jesus. And because you belong to him, the power of the life-giving Spirit has freed you from the power of sin that leads to death.”
Every sin has a satanic spirit responsible for it. To continue living in sin is to live with the same spirit. The nature of these spirits is that they increase over time if not resisted; this is why the condition of the person becomes worsened. Jesus in Mark 16:17 gave us the instruction to cast out devils. If there is any sin you are still struggling with in your life, know that there is a spirit responsible for it. Cast that devil out in the name of Jesus and tell it to return no more, and it shall obey you.
Prayer Father, thank You for my salvation, thank You for Your word, thank You for the name of Jesus Christ with which I live victoriously in this world. Blessed be God forever—Amen!
