The Parchments of Truth by Pastor Alex Iheme 17 February 2026Bible: John 6Key Verse: 6And this he said to prove him: for he himself knew what he would do.
Theme: Christ’s Approach to Life Issues
Message When you study the Bible, learn to read between the lines and to draw out the lessons contained in each of them. One word truly understood from God’s word can bring about great transformation in your life. The way to do this is by reading with your heart, because true understanding comes from the heart. The Bible says that the seed of God’s word is sown in the heart of men—that’s where the fruits are produced (Luke 8:11-15).
Another thing: always learn from the Bible characters as in a play of life. Those that did well, whom God praised—what exactly did they do? Copy and learn their deeds, and you shall receive the same praise of Him.
The chapter of the theme verse above spoke about the miracle performed by Jesus of the feeding of five thousand men, excluding women and children, with five loaves of bread and two fishes—the miracle of multiplication. Let us look carefully at His approach and draw our lessons.
Firstly, when He saw the multitude hungry without food and no place to buy, verse six says that He already knew what He was going to do. He did not allow the circumstances to overwhelm Him—He was in charge. Secondly, in verse ten, He brought order and control by making the men sit down. Thirdly, He took the bread and two fishes, which was the only food available, and looking up to heaven, He blessed it and gave thanks. And as they broke, the bread multiplied. The secret to divine multiplication is in blessing what you have and giving thanks for the things you need.
Finally, after they had eaten and were full, He guarded against wastage by instructing that the leftovers be gathered, that nothing be lost. Twelve baskets of leftovers were collected.
Declarations of Faith Holy Father, I declare that my heart is a good ground for the seed of Your word. And in me, it produces hundredfold fruits of what it talks about, in Jesus’ name—Amen!
