The Parchments of Truth by Pastor Alex Iheme 18 February 2026Bible: Ephesians 5:17Theme: Basics and Specifics of God’s Will
Message The Word of God is the total embodiment of His will. God’s word answers the questions of what to do, how to do, where to do, and when to do in every circumstance of our lives as believers. It also shows us the plan and purpose of God for us as individuals and collectively as the human race and the entire world. To know His word is to know His will. The more we grow in the knowledge of His word, the more readily we will live lives that are pleasing to Him and in accordance with His will. There are, however, the Basics (General rule) of His will and the Specifics (Personal) of His will.
Basics: The basics are the general instructions on Christian living. For example, it is His will that a man be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth (1 Timothy 2:4). So Jesus commanded us to preach the gospel to every creature and bring them to the kingdom. He said to us to rejoice always, pray always, and live a life of thanksgiving to God always, because that is God’s will for us (1 Thessalonians 5:16-18). He said to us to give attention to the study and meditation on His word. He commanded us not to live a life of bitterness but to walk in love towards all men. He commanded us to be anxious for nothing but to trust Him in all things. The instructions of God in the Holy Scripture on how believers should live are the basics of His will. When we do what He says, then we are living according to His will.
Specifics: Specifics are God’s will personally for us. It could be in the areas of our life purpose, marriage, families, health, jobs, relationship with Him, and many others. The specifics of God’s will for our individual lives may not be fully comprehended at once, but through relationship with God, in the place of fellowship and prayers, God reveals His will for us. And the benchmark is that His will revealed to us must be in agreement with His written word, the Bible. Jesus said, “I have many things to tell you which you may not be able to understand now, but the Spirit of truth will guide you in all the truth and will show you things to come.” (John 16:12-15). Seek always to know God’s will—His plan and purpose is always the best!
Prayer/Confessions Glorious Father, thank You for making Your will known to me in all things. I walk in the paths that You have set and ordained for me. I walk in the light of God’s will every day, in Jesus’ name—Amen.
