The Parchments of Truth by Pastor Alex Iheme01 February 2026Bible: Romans 13Key Verse: 1Let everyone be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except that which God has established.
Theme: Are government officials ministers of God too?
MessageYes, they are!Hear what the chapter says about them. It says, “For the one in authority is God’s servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for rulers do not bear the sword for no reason. They are God’s servants, agents of wrath to bring punishment on the wrongdoer (Romans 13:4).”
The word of God instructs us to submit to them as unto God. This is a hard teaching when many of them are seen to be corrupt and do not uphold the law which they have made themselves. We, however, do not give honour to our parents because they are good parents; we honour them because God instructs us to do so, and there is a promissory blessing in doing so. In the same way, give honour to the authority because God said to do so.
What if they instruct you to do something wrong? Well, they are meant to be your rulers for good deeds, not for evil deeds. So, you do not obey them or become a partaker in their wrongdoings.
Jesus spoke against many of their practices during His time here on earth. He says, “The Pharisees and the teachers of the Law are experts in the Law of Moses. So obey everything they teach you, but don't do as they do. After all, they say one thing and do something else (Matthew 23:2-3 CEV).”
Always do your best to maintain a clean record with regard to taxes and tributes which are due to the law. As a Christian, be a law-abiding citizen, contribute to your community, and to the growth of the economy of your country.
This way, you will thrive and become more successful. Also, you shall receive the praise of God and man!
PrayerFather, thank You for Your word. I declare that I am an advantage to my leaders, honouring them and helping them achieve Your will of peace and prosperity for all men, in Jesus’ name—Amen!
