The Parchments of Truth by Pastor Alex 25 February 2026Bible: 2 Timothy 2Key Verse: 20-21But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earth; and some to honour, and some to dishonour. If a man therefore purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel unto honour, sanctified, and meet for the master's use, and prepared unto every good work.
Theme: A Vessel of Honour Prepared for Special Purpose
MessageWhen a child is born, he is under parental care and nurturing. But when he grows up, he is expected to take responsibility not only for his own wellbeing but also for the welfare of the family. Likewise, as we grow and mature in Christ, God expects us to take responsibility in the kingdom regarding His eternal plan for mankind—that “all will be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth” (1 Timothy 2:4-5).
There are those who do nothing but complain about the state of things, but there are others who do not complain—they work towards fixing things and setting them right. The difference between the two is maturity. The level of your responsibility will determine your relevance to God. All are relevant, but not all are relevant for the great service of His great honour. The Bible says that a child is not different from a servant and therefore cannot be Lord of all until he grows up (Galatians 4:1).
Question: How can I become a vessel of honour unto my God?The answer is in the verse above: “If a man therefore purge himself from these…” What are “these”? They are the dishonourable things—those that do not glorify God and do not promote His righteousness. Therefore, work on your faith, give attention to His word, get involved in the work of love, and allow Jesus to be known through you in both your words and conduct. This way, you will approve yourself unto God, and He will use you for greater works. Hallelujah!
Prayers/Confessions I am a vessel of honour. I refuse to live for myself only. I choose to be responsible and relevant to my family, community, nation, and humanity. I serve in the commandership of God and bring Him the glory—Amen!
