The Parchments of Truth by Pastor Alex Iheme 02 February 2026Bible: Acts 14Key Verse: Acts 14:21–2221 And when they had preached the gospel to that city, and had taught many, they returned again to Lystra, and to Iconium, and Antioch, 22 Confirming the souls of the disciples, and exhorting them to continue in the faith…
Theme: Look after what God committed to your trust
Message Whatever God has entrusted to your care, take good care of it because that is what determines your next level and promotion. During their first missionary journey, Paul and Barnabas won many souls to Christ. After preaching in other cities, they returned to visit the believers, to see how they were faring and to strengthen their faith in the Lord. They remained faithful to their divine assignment.
Proverbs 27:23 says, “Know the state of your flocks, and put your heart into caring for your herds” (NLT).
There are those whose destinies will cross paths with yours, and God has raised you to be a helper to their lives, a link to their salvation, or a solution to their problems. It is a privilege to become a saviour together with Christ; do not take such opportunities for granted. The meaning of your own life will find expression in the testimonies of others, in how God used you to transform their lives.
Our lives are a means to God. Psalm 24:1 says, “The earth is the LORD’s, and everything in it. The world and all its people belong to Him.” God may have entrusted you with a special gift or abilities; know that it is a means to greater service. Your family is a means to raising a God-fearing generation.
Whatever God has made you, and in any condition that you find yourself, always ask yourself, how can I bring glory to God through this? That way, you will become a faithful steward of the manifold grace of God in your life.
Declarations I am a faithful steward of God’s grace; all that I am and will become is for His glory. And because I am faithful in the little, the Lord has promoted me to a greater height, in Jesus’ name—Amen!
