The Parchments of Truth by Pastor Alex Iheme 03 February 2026Bible: 1 Timothy 4Key Verse: 15Be diligent in these matters; give yourself wholly to them, so that everyone may see your progress.Theme: Give yourself completely to God
Message The word of God is a revealer of divine secrets in wisdom. The theme verse reveals that if you are diligent in any cause, giving yourself completely to the demands of it, your success will show and your progress will become evident for everyone to see. So, the secret is diligence. Proverbs 22:29 says, “Seest thou a man diligent in his business? he shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean men.”
No matter where you are in your knowledge of God and relationship with Him, there are still more things to know and greatness to achieve. With God, there is no end in sight.
To give yourself completely to God means to surrender your existence to Him. He becomes the Lord of your Spirit, Soul, and Body. That includes your thoughts, emotions, relationships, your dreams, desires, business, jobs, marriages, careers. It means that everything you are, have, and do will become an instrument to accomplishing God’s will and plan for you and your entire world. This is the true meaning of Jesus becoming the Lord of your life.
Is there any area or aspect of your life which has not yet surrendered to God? Ask the Lord in prayer to take over them, and yield to His Spirit in that area.
When you do this, you will increase in the fruits of the Spirit, demonstrating the very character of Jesus Christ. As a trusted vessel, you will increase in grace, and the Spirit will unleash diverse spiritual gifts upon you. Your competence level will increase, and many doors of opportunities shall open to you.
You will become a faithful steward of God’s manifold grace, an administrator of God’s blessings, and a channel through which men are won to the Kingdom of God.
Prayers Dear Father, blessed be Your name for Your indescribable gift to men. Hallelujah, Amen!
