The Parchments of Truth by Pastor Alex Iheme 04 February 2026Bible: 1 Peter 4Key Verse: 16Yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed; but let him glorify God on this behalf.
Theme: In the Steps of Jesus
Message If you are being accused of wrongdoing when you are convinced in your heart that you did what was right, how would you respond to your accusers? What if you are being lied against? What if you are being betrayed by someone whom you trusted? If you are faced with discrimination, victimization, and persecution because of your color, race, nationality, or faith, what would you do?
I presume that many Christians would respond differently based on their interpretation of the situation, knowledge of God’s word, and conviction of the heart. The Holy Scripture is replete with similar situations, starting from the suffering of Christ and that of the apostles, who serve as an example for us to follow.
Concerning the suffering of Christ, the Bible says, “To this you were called, because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example, that you should follow in his steps. He committed no sin, and no deceit was found in his mouth. When they hurled their insults at him, he did not retaliate; when he suffered, he made no threats. Instead, he entrusted himself to him who judges justly.” (1 Peter 2:21-23)
Do not be intimidated by those who cause you pain, or be afraid of their threats. Your God is stronger and greater than them all. With the wisdom of God, find a way through which your suffering will help in advancing the will of God, the gospel of Christ, and bring glory to God. But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or as a thief, or as an evildoer, or as a busybody in other men's matters (1 Peter 4:14); that will not be good for the kingdom image in the eyes of the world.
Prayer In the name of Jesus, I am strengthened with might in my inner man; I am bold and audacious, fearless and steadfast in declaration of my faith in the gospel of Christ, even in the face of challenges. Amen!
