The Parchments of Truth by Pastor Alex Iheme 05 February 2026Bible: Exodus 4Key Verse: 17And take your shepherd’s staff with you, and use it to perform the miraculous signs I have shown you.
Theme: The Importance of Miraculous Signs and Wonders, Today
Message When God sent Moses to Egypt to deliver the children of Israel out of bondage, He also gave him the power to perform miraculous signs and wonders through his shepherd’s rod. The signs and wonders were meant to be a validation that God had sent him and that God indeed was with him. In Exodus 4:29-31, the Bible says that the people believed when they heard the words and saw the signs.
But it was evident also that the signs and wonders did not save the Israelites. They had a deep-rooted problem of unbelief, and God said this concerning them in Numbers 14:11: “Then the LORD said to Moses: ‘How long will these people reject Me? And how long will they not believe Me, with all the signs which I have performed among them?’”
God’s comment was heart-breaking—they rejected Jehovah.
When Jesus went to His hometown at Nazareth, the Bible says, “And he could there do no mighty work, save that he laid his hands upon a few sick folks, and healed them. And he marvelled because of their unbelief. And he went round about the villages, teaching.” (Mark 6:5)
As much as the miracles are a validation to the gospel, it is the gospel that saves men, not the miracles. What man needs is God’s word—it produces the faith for salvation and the miraculous signs which shall follow. The Bible said to covet earnestly the spiritual gifts, but rather that you may speak forth. (1 Corinthians 14:1)
As we witness to others, let not your speech and preaching be with enticing words of man’s wisdom, but rather in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, leading the unsaved to God. Praised be to God, Amen!
Prayer Dear Father, thank You for Your word. As I witness to others, my hands are stretched to heal, to save, and to deliver, manifesting Your saving grace through signs and wonders that follow me, in Jesus’ name, Amen!
