The Parchments of Truth by Pastor Alex Iheme 07 February 2025Bible: Acts 15Key Verse: 36Some time later Paul said to Barnabas, “Let us go back and visit the believers in all the towns where we preached the word of the Lord and see how they are doing.”
Theme: Helping a Young Believer Grow to Maturity
Message Newborn babies do not automatically grow; they need a parent. Children that are neglected do not fare well in life; they need to be fed, loved, protected, and raised. The same is applicable to spiritual birth. When someone gives their heart to Christ and becomes a Christian, irrespective of their age, they are babes in Christ.
The Bible says in 1 Peter 2:2, “As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby.” St. Paul, speaking to the Corinthian brethren, said, “I gave you milk, not solid food, for you were not yet ready for it…” (1 Corinthians 3:2).
The milk is the “elementary truths of God’s word,” the basic principles that every Christian should know and do.
First, is the infilling of the Holy Spirit by laying on of hands; when this is done, one is empowered to live the Christian life by the power of the Holy Ghost. Secondly, is water baptism—it signifies one’s identification with Christ and final separation from the world, publicly announced. Thirdly, is the teaching on the principles of faith in God; new converts should be taught how to read and understand the Bible. They should have Bible study journals to write their lessons and prayers from the chapter they read each day. Additionally, there should be teaching on the importance of prayer and how to pray.
Show them the love of Christ by regularly checking on them, praying with them and for them, inviting and reminding them of church meetings, answering some of the questions they might have, and making sure that they are placed in a church cell group for fellowship and continuous growth.
Prayers Holy Father, help me to fulfill my obligations as a soul winner. I pray that all You have given to me will be raised to maturity in Christ, in Jesus’ name—Amen!
