The Parchments of Truth by Pastor Alex Iheme 08 June 2025Bible: 1 Peter 5Key Verse: 8Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour.
Theme: Sensing Evil and What to Do
Message As a child of God, the anointing of God’s Spirit is at work in you—you know all things (1 John 2:20). Yet, it is by the Spirit that you know all things, not by the flesh. You can sense evil or danger, and you can do something about it.
In Luke 22:31-32, Jesus sensed Satanic intentions against His disciples and He warned Peter, saying, “Simon, Simon, Satan has asked to sift all of you as wheat. But I have prayed for you, Simon, that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned back, strengthen your brothers.” (NIV). How did Jesus know about this, while the disciples were unaware? It is by the Spirit. It is called discernment—an ability to know, to hear, and to see spiritually. It is more like what people naturally call the sixth sense, the extra-sensory perception, seeing things or sensing things before they happen.
Discernment, however, is not the sixth sense; it is the guidance of the Spirit of God.
Proverbs says, “My son, do not lose sight of this: Preserve sound judgment and discernment. They will be life to your soul and adornment to your neck. Then you will go on your way in safety, and your foot will not stumble. When you lie down, you will not be afraid; when you rest, your sleep will be sweet.” (Proverbs 3:21-23 BSB)
Your discernment may come through divine revelation, strange activities happening around you, or through dreams. When evil is present, the first thing is that your spirit will suddenly grow uncomfortable. You sense danger, and an urge for prayer will come and grow stronger—do not ignore these signs.
The Bible says to resist the devil and he shall flee from you. When you sense evil, pray in the Spirit, declaring God’s word for you and against the evil. This is your shield of faith and the sword of the Spirit. Refuse to fear and declare what you want, and it shall be done. Hallelujah!
Prayer Dear Father, thank You for Your word. Blessed be Your name—Amen!
