The Parchments of Truth by Pastor Alex Iheme 09 February 2026Bible: Genesis 24Key Verse: 12And he said, O LORD God of my master Abraham, I pray thee, send me good speed this day, and shew kindness unto my master Abraham.
Theme: A Faithful Servant to His Master
Message At some point in life, we will find ourselves in a position where we are answerable and accountable to someone. This could be an employer, a superior at work, a leader of a certain group we belong to, an official of the law, an elder in the family, or a leader in the church. In such positions, do your best to be true to your post and to be found faithful in your service.
Faithfulness is a necessary requirement for every promotion. The book of Luke 13:16 says, “Very truly I tell you, no servant is greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him.” And, “If you have not been faithful in that which is another’s, who will give you that which is your own?” (Luke 16:12).
Our theme verse in Genesis 24:12 shows the servant of Abraham, whom he had put in charge of all that he had, praying to God to bless his master and to bless the responsibilities which his master had entrusted to his care. This attitude is worthy of emulation. He had the best interest of his master at heart, and this is what the Lord desires of us concerning those He has placed in leadership over us.
Now, concerning the church, Hebrews 13:17 instructs, “Have confidence in your leaders and submit to their authority, because they keep watch over you as those who must give an account. Do this so that their work will be a joy, not a burden, for that would be of no benefit to you.”
Today and always, refuse to serve in hypocrisy. Do not join paths with those who despise leadership and work towards tearing down what others have built.
Prayer Dear Holy and gracious Father, I yield myself in service to serve You in all things and not man. All I see is You as I serve in righteousness and true commitment, in Jesus’ name—Amen!
